---
bookCollapseSection: false
weight: 1
---

## **Overview**
---

A **community** is a group of people living in the same place or having common characteristics (geography, interests, experiences, concerns, values, etc.).

* Community medicine primarily <mark>aims to prevent diseases and promote health</mark>
    * deals with healthcare issues affecting communities as a whole
* Physicians, advanced practice nurse, and sometimes physician assistants can provide community medicine services.

Community medicine requires a multidisciplinary approach (focuses on different disciplines/specialties)

* Core subjects involved in comm. med:
    * epidemiology
    * health-care delivery system
    * biostatistics
    * public health nutrition
    * social, behavioural, environmental, and management sciences

## **Health**
---

"Health is the state of complete physical, mental, & social wellbeing and not merely the absence of disease". (WHO)

* Health is not a single state, it always changes.
* It is dynamic and multidimensional (mental, spiritual, physical, etc.)
* Health results from one's interactions/adaptations with/to their environment.
<!-- -->
* Health status is determined by five domains:
    * genetics
    * social circumstances (education, income, etc.)
    * behavioural choices (diet, exercise, etc.)
    * environmental conditions
    * availability of quality medical care


### **Dimensions**

* **Physical Dimension**
    * proper body functioning
    * physical fitness
    * activities of daily life (ADL)
<!-- -->
* **Mental Dimension**
    * ability to think/reason clearly
    * freedom from internal conflict
    * self-awareness
    * good self-control
    * ability to cope with stress
<!-- -->
* **Emotional Dimension**
    * self-efficacy and self-esteem
<!-- -->
* **Social Dimension**
    * ability to have satisfying relationships
<!-- -->
* **Spiritual Dimension**
    * feeling as a part of a greatur spectrum of existence
<!-- -->
* **Enviromental Dimension**
    * appreciation for external environment and one's role in it


### **Spectrum**

* Concept that health is dynamic/ever-changing, not a fixed state.
* A degradation in health is gradual, not sudden.
* Thus, health is a "spectrum"
    * optimum health --> better health --> freedom from sickness --> unrecognized sickness --> mild sickness --> severe --> death


### **Determinants**

Health is influenced by many factors known as "determinants".

Defined as: the conditions in which people are born, grow, work, live, and age, and the wider set of forces and systems shaping the conditions of daily life". (WHO)

Social Determinants of Health can be grouped into 5 major domains:
* Economic Stability
* Education access and quality
* Healthcare access and quality
* Neighborhood and built environment
* Social and community context

<!-- -->
* **Economic Stability**
    * Goal: help people earn steady incomes that allow them to meet their health needs.
    * steady employment = less likely to live in poverty, more likely to be healthy.
<!-- -->
* **Education access and quality**
    * Goal: increase educational opportunities, help children/adolescents do well in school.
    * higher levels of education = more likely to be healthier and live longer.
<!-- -->
* **Healthcare access and quality**
    * Goal: increase access to high-quality health care services.
    * no insurance = less likely to have primary care provider, may not be able to afford the healthcare/medications
    * strategies to increase insurance coverage rates help more people get access to important services (e.g: preventive care, treatment for chronic illnesses).
<!-- -->
* **Education access and quality**
    * Goal: create neighborhoods/environments that promote health and safety.
    * some neighbourhoods may have high rates of violence, unsafe air/water, and other health/safety risks.
    * racial/ethnic minorities and lower income individuals are more likely to live in such places.
    * some work environments may harm health (e.g: secondhand smoke, loud noises, etc.).
<!-- -->
* **Social and community context**
    * Goal: Increase social and community support.
    * relationships (family, friends, coworkers, etc.) can influence health.


