---
bookCollapseSection: false
weight: 1
---

## **Overview**
---


3 levels of care: primary, secondary, tertiary

* **Primary**
    * first contact with patient
    * responsible for preventative health care
<!-- -->
* **Secondary**
    * provides curative healthcare facilities
    * patients with abnormalities are referred to secondary
<!-- -->
* **Tertiary**
    * provides more advanced curative healthcare facilities
    * for specialized healthcare or when there are not enough facilities

PHC initially gained gained global prominence in the **1978 Alma Ata Declaration** in the Soviet Union.


The Alma Ata Declaration states:
* Health is a fundamental human right and its attainment is an important worldwide social goal.
* Inequality in the health status of the people (especially between countries) is unacceptable.
* The people have the right to participate in the planning/implementation of their health care.
* Government are responsible for the health of their people (by providing adequate health and social measures)
* All governments should create policies and strategies to launch and sustain PHC
* All countries should cooperate to ensure PHC for all people
* Acceptable level of health for all people by year 2000 can be attained by better use of world's resources


## **Primary Health Care**
---

PHC is first-level care provided to a community. It is the first point of contact with the healthcare system, usually through a family physician.

PHC is rooted in the idea that health is a bio-psycho-social phenomenon, not simply the absence of disease.

PHC is:

* Essential healthcare
* Universally accessible to individuals
* Acceptable to them
* Through their participation
* At a cost the community and country can afford

> *This can be remembered with the abreviation EUAPC*

PHC includes:
* Health promotion
* Illnes prevention
* Care of the sick
* Advocacy
* Community Development

### **Functions**

* provide continous and comprehensive care
* refer to specialists and/or hostpital services
* coordinate health services for the patient
* guide the patient through network of public services (health, welfare, etc.)
* provide best possible health/social services (in light of economic considerations)

### **Principles**
* Social equity
* National coverage
* Self-reliance
* Inter-sectoral coordination
* People's involvement in planning and implementation

### **Basic Elements**

Core activities and elements that PHC should have according to the Alma Ata declaration:
* Education
* Treatment
* Preventing endemic disease
* Immunization
* Maternal and child health
* Nutrition and food supply
* Water and sanitation
* Drug availability

### **Basic Requirements**

The basic requirements can be divided into 8 As and 3 Cs:

| Basic requirement | Explanation |
|:--:|:--:|
|**Aproppriateness**| Wether the service is needed, if it is then it needs to be carried out properly.|
|**Adequacy**| Sufficient volume of care to meet need/demand.|
|**Affordability**| Cost should be within means of the individual and country.
|**Accessibility**| Easily reachable and convenient (geographically, economically, and culturally).
|**Acceptability**| Trust and satisfactory communication between patient and HC providers.
|**Accountability**| Regular reviews of financial records by public accountants.
|**Asessability**| Medical care can be readily evaluated
|**Availability**| Care can be obtained by people whenever needed (readily available).
|**Completeness**| Focus on all aspects of problem (prevention, early detection, diagnosis, treatment, follow-ups, rehab).
|**Continuity**| Management of patient care is continued over time and coordinated among providers.
|**Comprehensiveness**| Care is provided for all types of health problems.

## **PHC Teams**
---

PHC teams are teams of interprofessional health providers that provide comprehensive primary care.

* The team works by combining knowledge, skills, and resources.
* All members share the responsibility for outcome.
* Each member understands his own functions and recognizes common interests.


A PHC team is made up of:

* Counseling social workers, psychologists, and psycho-therapists
* Administrative
* Reception of clients
* Secretarial / clerical work
* Family health services (administered by Family Health Service Authorities "FHSAs")
    * GPs (general practicioners)
    * dental practicioners
    * pharmacists
    * opticians
* Community health services
    * community doctors
    * dentists
    * nurses, midwives, health visitors
    * other allied professions (chiropody, physiotherapy, etc.)
