## **Inflammation**
---

Acute inflammation characteristically involves:

* A) Constriction of arterioles
* B) Capillary endothelial cell enlargement
* C) Influx of macrophages
* D) Influx of mast cells
* E) Influx of neutrophils

{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}
E) Influx of neutrophils
{{< /expand >}}

---

Which of the following is true regarding toll like receptors?

* A) They circulate in the blood
* B) Collectins are examples of TLRs
* C) They are essential for chemotaxis
* D) They recognize PAMPs

{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}
D) They recognize PAMPs
{{< /expand >}}

---

The process by which WBCs squeeze through pores in capillary wall is

* A) Chemotaxis
* B) Pinocytosis
* C) Opsonization
* D) Diapedesis

{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}
D) Diapedesis
{{< /expand >}}

---

A 72-year-old man presents with a 3-day history of progressively worsening productive cough, fever, chills, and signs of toxicity. Prominent physical findings include signs of consolidation and rales over the right lung base. Sputum culture is positive for Streptococcus pneumoniae. An intra-alveolar exudate filling the alveoli of the involved portion of the lung is present. Which of the following types of inflammatory cells is most likely a prominent feature of this exudate?

* A) Basophils
* B) Eosinophils
* C) Lymphocytes
* D) Monocytes–macrophages
* E) Neutrophils

{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}
E) Neutrophils
{{< /expand >}}

---

A routine complete blood count performed on a 22-year-old medical student reveals an abnormality in the differential leukocyte count. She has been complaining of frequent sneezing and “watery” eyes during the past several weeks and reports that she frequently had such episodes in the spring and summer. Which of the following cell types is most likely to be increased?

* A) Basophils
* B) Eosinophils
* C) Lymphocytes
* D) Monocytes
* E) Neutrophils

{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}
B) Eosinophils

*(remember: esoinophils are associated with allergic rxns)*
{{< /expand >}}

---

A laboratory experiment is performed to evaluate the chemotactic potential of a
group of potential mediators. Which of the
following substances most likely has the
greatest affinity for neutrophils?
* A) C5a
* B) Fucosyl transferase
* C) β2-Integrin
* D) P-selectin
* E) TNF-α

{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}
A) C5a
{{< /expand >}}

---

The unidirectional migration of leukocytes towards a target is referred to as

* A) diapedesis
* B) chemotaxis
* C) opsonization
* D) endocytosis
* E) margination

{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}
B) chemotaxis
{{< /expand >}}

---

The adherance of neutrophils and monocytes to the vascular endothelium prior to movement into extravascular space is called

* A) margination
* B) diapedesis
* C) pavementing
* D) emigration
* E) clotting

{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}
C) pavementing
{{< /expand >}}

---

Cells that are capable of phagocytosis of particulate matter include

* A) neutrophils, macrophages, eosinophils
* B) lymphocytes, mast cells
* C) T cells, null cells
* D) basophils, stem cells
* E) endothelial cells, stem cells

{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}
A) neutrophils, macrophages, eosinophils
{{< /expand >}}

---

All of the following statements describing leukocyte emigration from vessels in areas of inflammation are true except

* A) leukocytes pass through gaps between the vascular endothelial cells
* B) neutrophils are the first cells to emigrate
* C) leukocytes develop pseudopods to aid in emigration
* D) a small loss of fluid accompanies leukocyte emigration
* E) accompanying loss of red cells is passive

{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}
D) a small loss of fluid accompanies leukocyte emigration
{{< /expand >}}

---

The inflammatory response serves all of the following EXCEPT

* A) isolation of infected tissues
* B) inactivation of causative agents
* C) neutralization of toxins
* D) removal of devitalized tissue debris
* E) fistula formation

{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}
E) fistula formation
{{< /expand >}}

---

{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}

{{< /expand >}}

---

## **Repair**
---

Once damaged, a tissue or organ usually attempts to regenerate itself. All of the following cell types are capable of regenerating tissue EXCEPT

* A) hepatocytes
* B) colonic mucosal cells
* C) vascular endothelial cells
* D) myocardial cells
* E) bone marrow myoblasts

{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}
D) myocardial cells
{{< /expand >}}

---
