---
bookCollapseSection: false
weight: 1
---

## **Inflammation**
---

Acute inflammation characteristically involves:

* A) Constriction of arterioles
* B) Capillary endothelial cell enlargement
* C) Influx of macrophages
* D) Influx of mast cells
* E) Influx of neutrophils

{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}
E) Influx of neutrophils
{{< /expand >}}

---

Which of the following is true regarding toll like receptors?

* A) They circulate in the blood
* B) Collectins are examples of TLRs
* C) They are essential for chemotaxis
* D) They recognize PAMPs

{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}
D) They recognize PAMPs
{{< /expand >}}

---

A 36-year-old man has had midepigastric abdominal pain for the past 3 months. An upper gastrointestinal endoscopy
shows a 2-cm, sharply demarcated, shallow ulceration of the gastric antrum. A biopsy specimen of the ulcer base shows
angiogenesis, fibrosis, and mononuclear cell infiltrates with lymphocytes, macrophages, and plasma cells. Which of the
following terms best describes this pathologic process?

* A) Acute inflammationRobbins & Cotran Review of PathologyPg. 18
* B) Serous inflammation
* C) Granulomatous inflammation
* D) Fibrinous inflammation
* E) Chronic inflammation

{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}
E) Chronic inflammation
{{< /expand >}}


---

The process by which WBCs squeeze through pores in capillary wall is

* A) Chemotaxis
* B) Pinocytosis
* C) Opsonization
* D) Diapedesis

{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}
D) Diapedesis
{{< /expand >}}

---

A 72-year-old man presents with a 3-day history of progressively worsening productive cough, fever, chills, and signs of toxicity. Prominent physical findings include signs of consolidation and rales over the right lung base. Sputum culture is positive for Streptococcus pneumoniae. An intra-alveolar exudate filling the alveoli of the involved portion of the lung is present. Which of the following types of inflammatory cells is most likely a prominent feature of this exudate?

* A) Basophils
* B) Eosinophils
* C) Lymphocytes
* D) Monocytes–macrophages
* E) Neutrophils

{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}
E) Neutrophils
{{< /expand >}}

---

A routine complete blood count performed on a 22-year-old medical student reveals an abnormality in the differential leukocyte count. She has been complaining of frequent sneezing and “watery” eyes during the past several weeks and reports that she frequently had such episodes in the spring and summer. Which of the following cell types is most likely to be increased?

* A) Basophils
* B) Eosinophils
* C) Lymphocytes
* D) Monocytes
* E) Neutrophils

{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}
B) Eosinophils
{{< /expand >}}

---

A laboratory experiment is performed to evaluate the chemotactic potential of a
group of potential mediators. Which of the
following substances most likely has the
greatest affinity for neutrophils?
* A) C5a
* B) Fucosyl transferase
* C) β2-Integrin
* D) P-selectin
* E) TNF-α

{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}
A) C5a
{{< /expand >}}

---

The unidirectional migration of leukocytes towards a target is referred to as

* A) diapedesis
* B) chemotaxis
* C) opsonization
* D) endocytosis
* E) margination

{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}
B) chemotaxis
{{< /expand >}}

---

The adherance of neutrophils and monocytes to the vascular endothelium prior to movement into extravascular space is called

* A) margination
* B) diapedesis
* C) pavementing
* D) emigration
* E) clotting

{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}
C) pavementing
{{< /expand >}}

---

Cells that are capable of phagocytosis of particulate matter include

* A) neutrophils, macrophages, eosinophils
* B) lymphocytes, mast cells
* C) T cells, null cells
* D) basophils, stem cells
* E) endothelial cells, stem cells

{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}
A) neutrophils, macrophages, eosinophils
{{< /expand >}}

---

All of the following statements describing leukocyte emigration from vessels in areas of inflammation are true except

* A) leukocytes pass through gaps between the vascular endothelial cells
* B) neutrophils are the first cells to emigrate
* C) leukocytes develop pseudopods to aid in emigration
* D) a small loss of fluid accompanies leukocyte emigration
* E) accompanying loss of red cells is passive

{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}
D) a small loss of fluid accompanies leukocyte emigration
{{< /expand >}}

---

The inflammatory response serves all of the following EXCEPT

* A) isolation of infected tissues
* B) inactivation of causative agents
* C) neutralization of toxins
* D) removal of devitalized tissue debris
* E) fistula formation

{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}
E) fistula formation
{{< /expand >}}

---

All of the following are cardinal signs of inflammation except:

* A) swelling
* B) warmth
* C) pain
* D) chills

{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}
D) chills
{{< /expand >}}

---

Which one of the listed substances is produced by the action of
lipoxygenase on arachidonic acid, is a potent chemotactic factor for neu-
trophils, and causes aggregation and adhesion of leukocytes?

* A) C5a
* B) Prostacyclin
* C) IL-8
* D) Thromboxane A 2
* E) Leukotriene B4

{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}
* e. Leukotriene B4
{{< /expand >}}

---

A 10-year-old child developed a sore throat and fever over 24 hours. Physical examination shows pharyngeal erythema
and swelling. Laboratory findings include leukocytosis. The child is given acetylsalicylic acid (aspirin). Which of the
following features of the inflammatory response is most affected by this drug?

* A) Vasodilation
* B) Chemotaxis
* C) Phagocytosis
* D) Emigration of leukocytes
* E) Release of leukocytes from bone marrow

{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}
A) Vasodilation
{{< /expand >}}

---

A 53-year-old woman has had a high fever and cough productive of yellowish sputum for the past 2 days. Her vital signs
include temperature of 37.8°C, pulse of 83/min, respirations of 17/min, and blood pressure of 100/60 mm Hg. On
auscultation of the chest, crackles are audible in both lung bases. A chest radiograph shows bilateral patchy pulmonary
infiltrates and fluid in the right pleural cavity. Thoracentesis yields 500 mL of cloudy yellow fluid. Which of the following
inflammatory cell types is most likely to be seen in greatly increased numbers in a sputum specimen?

* A) Macrophages
* B) Neutrophils
* C) Mast cells
* D) Small lymphocytes
* E) Langhans giant cells

{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}
B) Neutrophils
{{< /expand >}}

---

One of the following is seen in acute inflammation?

* A) Exudate
* B) Transudate
* C) Mainly monocytes (macrophages)
* D) Very slow

{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}
A) Exudate
{{< /expand >}}

---

Vasodilation and
increases in vascular
permeability is caused by
which of the following
chemical mediators?

* A) histamine
* B) LTB4
* C) TNF
* D) C5a

{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}
A) histamine
{{< /expand >}}

---

## **Repair**
---

Once damaged, a tissue or organ usually attempts to regenerate itself. All of the following cell types are capable of regenerating tissue EXCEPT

* A) hepatocytes
* B) colonic mucosal cells
* C) vascular endothelial cells
* D) myocardial cells
* E) bone marrow myoblasts

{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}
D) myocardial cells
{{< /expand >}}

---


